Improved cache docs (#38060)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/cache_explanation.md

$$

At inference time, we only need the last token's query to compute the representation \\( x_t \\) that will predict the next token \\( t+1 \\). At each step, we **store** the new key and value vectors in the cache and **append** them to the past keys and values:

$$
K_{\text{cache}} \leftarrow \text{concat}(K_{\text{past}}, k_t), \quad V_{\text{cache}} \leftarrow \text{concat}(V_{\text{past}}, v_t)
$$

### How Caching Improves Efficiency

Without caching:
- At each step \\( t \\), recompute all \\( K_{1:t} \\) and \\( V_{1:t} \\).
- Attention cost per step is **quadratic** with sequence length.

With caching:
- At each step, only compute \\( k_t, v_t \\).
- Attention cost per step is **linear** with sequence length.
- Memory grows linearly with sequence length, but compute per token remains low.

> [!WARNING]
> Attention happens independently in each layer of the model. Caching is done on a per-layer basis.

## Cache class

Thus, the basic interface of a KV cache takes a key and value tensor for the current token and returns the updated `K` and `V` tensors.

```py
new_K, new_V = cache.update(k_t, v_t, layer_idx)
attn_output = attn_layer_idx_fn(q_t, new_K, new_V)
```

> This is managed internally by the model's `forward` method. When you use Transformers' [`Cache`] class, the self-attention module performs several critical steps to integrate past and present information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use Transformers' [`Cache`] class, the self-attention module performs several critical steps to integrate past and present information.
```

2. When the `forward` method is called iteratively, it's crucial that the attention mask shape matches the combined length of the past and current kv pairs. The attention mask should have the shape `(batch_size, past_kv_length + new_tokens_length)`. This is typically handled internally in [`~GenerationMixin.generate`], but if you want to implement your own generation loop with [`Cache`], keep this in mind! The attention mask should hold the past and current token values.

3. It is also important to be aware of the `cache_position`. This is important if you want to reuse a prefilled [`Cache`] with the `forward` method because you have to pass a valid `cache_position` value. This indicates the input positions in a sequence. `cache_position` is unaffected by padding, and it always adds one more position for each token. For example, if a kv cache contains 10 tokens - regardless of pad tokens - the cache position for the next token should be `torch.tensor([10])`.

> ## Data Storage Implementation
> 
> The actual storage of key-value pairs varies between cache implementations. Let's look at the most basic implementation, `DynamicCache`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Cache storage implementation

The actual storage of key-value pairs varies between cache implementations. As an example, consider the [`DynamicCache`].
```

> ### DynamicCache Implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In `DynamicCache`, the key-value pairs are stored as two lists of tensors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In [`DynamicCache`], the key-value pairs are stored as two lists of tensors. Each tensor in the lists have the shape `[batch_size, num_heads, seq_len, head_dim]`.
```

> - `key_cache`: A list of tensors, one for each layer
> - `value_cache`: A list of tensors, one for each layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `key_cache`: A list of tensors, one for each layer.
- `value_cache`: A list of tensors, one for each layer.
```

> Each tensor in these lists has the shape `[batch_size, num_heads, seq_len, head_dim]`. When new tokens are processed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When new tokens are processed:
```

> 1. For each layer, the new key and value states are concatenated with the existing cache:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. For each layer, the new key and value states are concatenated with the existing cache.
```

```py
self.key_cache[layer_idx] = torch.cat([self.key_cache[layer_idx], key_states], dim=-2)
self.value_cache[layer_idx] = torch.cat([self.value_cache[layer_idx], value_states], dim=-2)
```

> 2. The cache grows dynamically as more tokens are processed, with the sequence length dimension (`seq_len`) increasing with each new token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The cache grows dynamically as more tokens are processed. The sequence length dimension (`seq_len`) increases with each new token.
```

> 3. The cache maintains a count of seen tokens through `self._seen_tokens`, which is updated when the first layer processes a new token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The cache maintains a count of seen tokens through `self._seen_tokens`. This is updated when the first layer processes a new token.
```

print(tokenizer.batch_decode(generated_ids, skip_special_tokens=True)[0])
"[INST] Hello, what's your name. [/INST]  Hello! My name is LLaMA,"
```
## Legacy cache format

Before the [`Cache`] class, the cache used to be stored as a tuple of tuples of tensors. This format is dynamic because it grows as text is generated, similar to [`DynamicCache`].

> The legacy format is essentially the same data structure but organized differently:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The legacy format is essentially the same data structure but organized differently.
```

> - It's a tuple of tuples, where each inner tuple contains the key and value tensors for a layer
> - The tensors have the same shape `[batch_size, num_heads, seq_len, head_dim]`
> - The format is less flexible and doesn't support advanced features like quantization or offloading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It's a tuple of tuples, where each inner tuple contains the key and value tensors for a layer.
- The tensors have the same shape `[batch_size, num_heads, seq_len, head_dim]`.
- The format is less flexible and doesn't support features like quantization or offloading.
```
